(upbeat music)
All right, this is Method Cardio.
I like to make this thing up called Array Cardio,
and whatever Cardio, and essentially what it is
is lots of little examples,
that instead of me sitting here and trying to explain all
of the different array methods to you,
we're going to just do lots of examples.
I'll try to get you do it on your own,
and then you come back and watch me do it,
and I'll sorta talk through how they all work.
So, array methods are all of these,
if you just Google Array Methods MDN,
you'll pull up the docs for the Array,
and in the sidebar here you're gonna see all of these here.
Array.from(), is Array.of(),
and then all of these prototype (chirping),
all of those, right?
So I don't wanna sit here and explain all of 'em to you,
'cause that's a little bit boring.
So, what we're gonna do is I've got some data here,
and we're gonna work with it.
We're gonna add things, remove things, sort things,
loop over things.
We're gonna be working with this data
with the hopes that it will start to set in.
Now I have this course the JavaScript30,
you might have taken it already.
And in that we've got two different Array Cardios,
so if this isn't enough, I've got two more days of this,
which is just more and more practice.
I've heard from people that these
are their absolute favorites.
So definitely check those out if you are--
-it's totally free, you can get a little bit more practice
on your arrays after that.
So, let's get into it.
I've sort of broken this up
into a couple different sections here.
We got Static Methods.
We got Instance Methods, Callback Methods,
and Looping Methods.
We'll do that one in the next,
'cause that's like a map filter reduce,
that's a pretty big one and pretty fundamental,
so we're gonna spend a little bit more time
on that one.
But we're gonna start off with what are referred to
as Static Methods.
Now, you can go to the Arrays Method Start,
and this will just give you a blank version of this,
and you can start to work through that.
Now, if we go to the sidebar here,
you're gonna see there's three methods right here,
from, isArray, and of.
And you see that their Array.of, Array.isArray,
Array.from, and then the rest
of them are Array.prototype.concat.
What's the deal with that?
Well that is what is referred--
-these are what is referred to as static methods.
And these are what are referred to as instance,
or prototypal methods.
And what that means is when you create a new array,
so if I create like a numbers array here.
And numbers is ready, oh I already have it here.
Numbers is 'cause I recorded this entire video,
and I was recording the wrong screen.
So, we've got this number array here,
and if you take it, you can do things like we can pop,
and you can push more numbers on it again,
and those are methods that sort of just come along.
Whenever you create an array,
you get what is referred to as the array prototype,
and these are all the methods that
are on every single array that are useful
for us to work with that array.
Now there are also these things called static methods,
which aren't available on every single array,
but sort of live on the mama, capital A, Array here,
and those are often what I call utility methods.
They're just sort of handy methods for creating
or working with arrays.
And we're actually gonna look
at some object static methods as well.
So the way that they work is that they're not a method
like .push would be on an array you created,
but they are called with something like Array.from,
and they are accessed exactly like that.
So let's go through it.
First one, Array.of.
Array.of is used for creating an array
from it's arguments.
So if I create Array.of here, and if I pass it wes,
and then I pass it a second argument of kait,
what it will do is it will create an array
from the arguments that you pass it.
Now, that's cool.
I honestly don't use that, ever.
I look through all of the code I've written
on my GitHub, and aside from examples explaining
how Array.of works, I've never used it myself,
because I mostly just use, like if you're typing that,
why not just create an array like this, right?
Why not just create an array literal.
There are a couple little edge case uses for it.
One kind of cool thing is that,
you can spread into a function.
So remember that we talked about
where if you have something, you can spread into an array,
and what this does is it takes an iterable,
meaning something that has a length.
And this is something that has a length,
because strings have a length.
And you can spread each of the items
of that iterable into the surrounding array.
So what I've done there is I've spread the word wes
into an array, and it's taken every letter
and put it as an item of the array.
The same thing works, not just when you're spreading
into an array, but you can also spread into a function.
So if you have a function that takes an unlimited amount
of arguments, or you have something which you want
to spread each item as a argument one, argument two,
argument three, you can spread into a function call,
and in that case you get the exact same thing.
So, that's what it does.
I don't know, keep it in your back pocket.
I doubt you'll use that all that often.
Next one we have here is Array.from,
which is something that I use fairly often.
So, Array.from will take an iterable,
something with a length, and most likely I'll give it
an object with a length property,
and what that will do is it returns to an array
from that iterable, with that many empty slots.
So Array.from, you say I want 10 spots.
It will return to you an array with 10 empty spots.
Now, that's really handy, because I often want
to make an array of like numbers one through 10,
and then loop over them and display
like first, second, third, fourth, something like that.
Sometimes I just wanna loop from one to 10,
or five to eight, and using Array.from will do that.
Now, from also takes a secondary argument,
which is referred to as a map argument.
And the map function will tell us what we can return
to put in those slots.
So let's do that right here.
So if I were to say const range is equal to Array.from.
And let's say I wanna make 10 slots.
I'll give it a length of 10.
And then the second argument from that will be a function
from which you can return anything you want.
So like return 'wes'.
Now we take a look at this right here.
You see, I've got an array of 10 wes', right?
So, create an array with 10 spots,
and then fill it with whatever you return from here.
Now this callback function will give you the actual item,
or the slot, like whatever is in each one,
and in our case, it's always gonna be undefined.
So you can just refer to that as,
a lot of people do an underscore.
Some people do underscore item, just to denote
that the underscore means it doesn't do anything.
Some people also just say item,
and then the second argument is going to be the index,
and then from here, we can return the index.
And now watch, what that will do is it gives us an array,
where each number is the index that we have.
So we can use this to make a little function here.
So we'll make a function called createRange,
and we have a start and an end.
And we'll bring this little range creator inside of it,
and we'll say Array.from, something with a length of,
well what is the length going to be?
It's going to be the end minus the start.
And let's see how that works.
So I said createRange, start at three, go to seven,
and oh (laughs), we forgot to return the range.
Then obviously, that function's not going to do anything.
There we go!
Start at three, go to seven,
that's going to give us four spots.
Then what we can do is return the index,
plus the start number.
And that gives us three, four, five, six.
If you wanted this to be inclusive of seven,
we could add one here.
There we go, three, four, five, six, seven.
That looks good.
So this is a handy little range function
that I've probably written a dozen times in my career,
and I think it's probably a pretty handy thing.
So that's what Array.from does,
it creates an array, given an iterable,
which most likely is always going to be an object
with a length on it.
Next, what we wanna do is, actually let's create a range.
Const myRange is equal to createRange,
start at three, go to seven.
I show you, you can go pretty, oh!
That was too long.
This is a very long array.
Doesn't seem to have worked.
I think I broke it.
Yeah, look it's spinning (laughs).
So, there is a limit to how big your arrays can be.
They are very, very, very large.
There are some additional datatypes in the language
for having big, big arrays.
And more than likely you'll only run into those
when you're dealing with 3D graphics,
and you need to work at a pixel level.
I just broke that.
I'm gonna open it up in a new window here,
and try to run it now.
There we go, with 7,000 items,
you see it runs nice and quickly.
We looked at this isArray before,
but I can show you this right now.
Just console.log the Array.isArray,
myRange, that should console.log true,
because it is a true array, good!
That's a pretty common thing,
just because a typeof, we take myRange,
remember that returns an object.
So if you actually wanna check if it is an array,
you use Array.isArray.
Some other people would sort of cheat it,
and look for things that are arrayish,
like they would check if it has a length property,
but that isn't all that good,
because you could have an object
with a length property as well,
and that wouldn't really work,
so use that.
Next up we have these static methods,
which are on the object instead of on the array.
However, they return arrays,
so that's why I'm including them here.
And the question here is take the meats object,
and make three arrays with entries, keys, and values.
So what this will do is if we console.log,
Object.entries, if you pass it an object,
so let's take a look here.
We've got this meats object here.
Beyond, beef, pork, 10, five, and seven,
if you pass it and you want to turn this object
into an array of the keys, or the values, or both,
that's where we use these static helper methods.
So, entries is going to give us both of them.
Let's just do them all.
Keys, and values.
And you're gonna see that keys
is gonna give us an array of all of the object keys.
Values is gonna give us an array of all of the values.
And entries is going to give us an array,
where each item is then unnested,
if this is a second array, inside of it,
which where the first thing is the key,
and the second thing is the value.
So, pretty common thing to do.
One pretty common way to work with those is our forEach,
I know we're getting a little ahead of ourselves,
'cause we haven't learned about looping all that much,
but I'm gonna show you how to do it anyway.
If we say Object.values,
and we pass it the meats,
we can do dot forEach, and we can just say, meat.
And for each of those we'll console.log the meat.
And, oh, the values is not the meat,
it's the quantity.
So let me say qty.
And we get 10, five, and seven,
those are the values for each of them, right?
That's a pretty common thing to do
if you wanna like loop over and add up
how much inventory you have,
or you wanna add up all the numbers,
then we're gonna look at how we can use reduce
to do that.
So, same thing as if we were to do keys,
we would get the opposite.
And then entries, you will get both.
So we'll just name this entry now,
and console.log the entry to see what we get.
And you see for each one, you get an array
with two items.
The first item is always going to be the key,
and the second item is always going to be the value.
So if you wanted to split those up into their own variables,
you could say const key is equal to,
entry, square bracket zero.
And value is going to be the second thing in it,
and then if we were to console.log key and value,
beyond, beef, pork, 10, five, and seven.
Okay, so that is working,
but another sort of common thing I'll show you
is this thing that is referred to as destructuring.
We've talked about this a lot in this course,
and this is the perfect example.
So, instead of doing this, where you say the first thing
is the key and the second thing is the value,
we can say const key, value is equal to entry.
And we'll comment those out,
and that is the exact same thing but in one line.
What it does is it takes the first item
of our entry array, puts it in a variable called key.
Takes the second item of the entry array,
puts it in a variable called value.
Refresh, still works, just fine, nothing wrong with that.
Then you could even take it one step further,
and destructure this entry variable,
not inside of the body of the function,
but inside of the function definition.
So, let me just say, absolutely nothing wrong with that.
Absolutely nothing wrong with this,
this is just another way to do it.
I find that for a lot of beginners
that might be a little bit confusing,
so feel free to pump the brakes on this
if you're feeling a little bit confused.
So, we'll wrap this entry in parenthesis.
So that's just a regular function,
we did nothing there.
And then I'm going to,
instead of passing one variable called entry,
I'm going to destructure that entry array
into key and value directly,
and now I don't even need to destructure it,
I can just console.log the key and the value directory,
variables directly.
Key and value are not special names here.
You can name them whatever you want.
So we said meat and qty, quantity,
and then we would just change that over here.
Meat and Q-T-Y.
So, Object.entries, values, keys,
I use that all the time.
Very, very handy.